Sboy - a program for taking readings from SMA SunnyBoy inverter

Author Dick Middleton  November 2012.  Licensed with GNU copyleft V3.

The intention of this program is to return the current readings from
the SunnyBoy inverter to the invoking program.  This program does not
do scheduling or logging or submission of data.  All the management stuff has
to be perfomed by the invoking program.

A program with a simialr purpose but which interacts with A PowerOne Aurora
inverter has also been written. The management program works equally well
with either.

The data returned looks like:

READINGS: 114: 0.905: 2967.751: Sboy 2012-11-07 1026

The fields are:

1: A constant "READINGS" which is to give some confidence that the right
string is being parsed.

2: The power being developed at the time of the reading (integer watts).

3: The total energy generated (yield) so far today. (decimal kW.h)

4: The total energy generated in the lifetime of the inverter.  The
inverter's meter.  (decimal kW.h).

5: A comment field (or fields) likely to contain the name and version of the
program.

The field separator is a colon.  This is an easy format to unwrap using the
perl split function which is why it was chosen.

The program can do other things according to command line options.

sboy -h or sboy --detailed-help should provide further information.

Usage: sboy [OPTIONS]...

  -h, --help                 Print help and exit
      --detailed-help        Print help, including all details and hidden 
                               options, and exit
      --full-help            Print help, including hidden options, and exit
  -V, --version              Print version and exit

Bluetooth MAC Address:
      --address=mac_address  BT MAC address of inverter  
      --device=mac_address   BT MAC address of host computer  

N.B. Bluetooth mac addresses must be 6 colon separated hex pairs e.g: 
00:01:FF:A6:42:9A

Other options:
  -b, --btpower              Display Bluetooth power from inverter

 Group: Display detail
  -v, --verbosity[=level]    Set detail of output messages. With no argument 
                               defaults to normal verbosity  (possible 
                               values="quiet", "normal", "verbose", 
                               "detailed" default=`normal')

The bluetooth mac addresses, which are required, can be passed on the command
line but it is anticipated the source code will be editied with the users
values so save the bother. The changes should be made in config.h.

Much of the SMA SunnyBoy protocol is a mystery as it has not been published. 
This program depends on inspiration, knowledge and example provided by:

a) Wim Hofman and his smatool program. 
     http://www.on4akh.be/SMA-read.html
b) Stuart Pittaway and his nanodesmapvmonitor program. 
     https://github.com/stuartpittaway/nanodesmapvmonitor
c) Alan Christiansen for his insights to the SMA protocol. 
     https://sourceforge.net/p/yasdlib/home/Home/ and postings on 
     on the Whirlpool forum. 

All these contributions are gratefully acknowledged.

